[IMP] accounting: improve accounting concept (#4060)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/getting_started/main_concept.rst

Double-entry bookkeeping
========================

Odoo automatically creates all the underlying journal entries for each of your accounting
transactions such as customer invoices, vendor bills, point-of-sales orders, expenses, inventory
valuations, etc.
For each accounting transaction there is the double-entry bookkeeping system, whereby the total
amount debited always equals the total amount credited.

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`Accounting Cheat Sheet <cheat_sheet>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :doc:`Accounting Cheat Sheet <cheat_sheet>`
```
No bullet point if there is only a single element. To be applied to all seealso

updated in real-time:

- :guilabel:`Statement reports`: Balance sheet, Profit and Loss, Cash flow Statement, Tax Report, ES
  Sales List.
- :guilabel:`Audit Reports`: General Ledger, Trial Balance, Journal Report, Intrastat Report, Check
  Register.
- :guilabel:`Partner Reports`: Partner Ledger, Aged Receivable, Aged Payable.
- :guilabel:`Management`: Invoice Analysis, Unrealized Currency Gains/Losses, Depreciation Schedule,
  Disallowed Expenses, Budget Analysis, Product Margins, 1099 Report.
- **Country specific reports** based on your company's location and the fiscal localization packages
  installed on your database.

.. tip::
   Odoo's report engine allows you to customize your own report based on your own
   :doc:`formulas <../reporting/overview/customize>`.

Tax report
----------

Odoo computes all accounting transactions for the specific tax period and uses these totals to
calculate the tax obligation.

.. important::
  Once the tax report has been generated, Odoo does not allow to make journal entries involving VAT
  in the closed period. If the period is locked, any correction to customer or vendor
  bills have to be recorded in the next period.

.. note::

>    Depending on the country's localization, an .XML file can be generated to upload the tax report
>    directly on the VAT platform of the legal administration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Depending on the country's localization, an XML version of the tax report can be generated to be uploaded 
   to the VAT platform of the relevant taxation authority.
```
Suggestion

Bank synchronization
====================

The bank synchronization system directly connects with your bank institution to automatically

> import all bank transactions into your database. Offering an overview of your cash flow without
> logging into the online banking system or waiting for paper bank statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import all bank transactions into your database. It gives an overview of your cash flow without
having to log into an online banking system or wait for paper bank statements.
```

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Bank Synchronization <../bank/bank_synchronization>`

Inventory valuation
===================

Both periodic (manual) and perpetual (automated) inventory valuations are supported in Odoo. The

> available methods are standard price, average price, last-in first-out method (LIFO) and first-in
> first-out method (FIFO).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available methods are standard price, average price, :abbr:`LIFO (Last-In, First-Out)`,
and :abbr:`FIFO (First-In, First-Out)`.
```
You could use `:abbr:` here

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`View impact of the valuation method on your transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   doc:`View the impact of valuation methods on transactions
```

Double-entry bookkeeping
========================

> Odoo automatically creates all the underlying journal entries for each of your accounting
> transactions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Odoo automatically creates all the underlying journal entries for each of your accounting
transactions such as customer invoices, vendor bills, point-of-sales orders, expenses, inventory valuations, etc.

```

- Customer invoices;
- Vendor bills;
- Point-of-sale orders;
- Expenses;
- Inventory valuations;

> - and more ..

Reviewer 2: ```

Odoo follows the double-entry bookkeeping system, whereby the total amount debited always equals the
total amount credited.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Accounting Cheat Sheet <cheat_sheet>`

Accrual and cash basis methods
==============================

Odoo supports both accrual and cash basis reporting. This allows to report income/expense when

> transactions occur (i.e., accrual basis), or when payment is made or received (i.e., cash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the transaction occur (i.e., accrual basis), or when payment is made or received (i.e., cash
```

basis).

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Cash basis <../taxation/taxes/cash_basis_taxes>`

Multi-company
=============

Odoo allows the management of several companies within the same database. Each company has its
:doc:`Chart of Accounts <initial_configuration/chart_of_accounts>` and gets consolidation reports
following its rules. Users can access several companies but can only work in one company at a time.

Multi-currency environment
==========================

> Odoo offers a :doc:`multi-currency <../others/multi_currency>` environment with an automated
> exchange rate to ease your international transactions. Every transaction is recorded in the
> company's default currency; for transactions occurring in another currency, Odoo stores both the
> value in the company's currency and the transactions' currency value. Odoo generates currency gains
> and losses after reconciling the journal items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Odoo offers a :doc:`multi-currency <../others/multi_currency>` environment with an automated
exchange rate to ease international transactions. Every transaction is recorded in the
company's default currency; for transactions occurring in another currency, Odoo stores both the
value in the company's currency and the transactions' currency value. Odoo generates currency gains
and losses after reconciling the journal items.
```

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Manage a bank in a foreign currency <../bank/setup/foreign_currency>`

International Standards
=======================

Odoo Accounting supports more than 70 countries. It provides the central standards and mechanisms
common to all nations, and thanks to country-specific modules, local requirements are fulfilled.
Fiscal positions exist to address regional specificities like the chart of accounts, taxes, and any
requirement.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Fiscal localization packages <../../fiscal_localizations>`

Accounts receivable and payable
===============================

> By default, Odoo uses a single account for all account receivable entries and one all accounts
> payable entries. Transactions are related to your contacts, which allow you to perform analysis per
> customer, vendor or supplier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Odoo uses a single account for all accounts receivable entries and one for all accounts
payable entries. Transactions are related to your contacts, which allow you to perform analysis per
customer, vendor or supplier.
```

The **Partner Ledger** report displays the balance of your customers and suppliers. It is available
by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Partner Ledger`.

Reporting
=========

The following financial :doc:`reports <../reporting/overview/main_reports>` are available and
updated in real-time:

> - Statement reports: balance sheet, profit and loss, cash flow statement, tax report, ES sales list.
> - Audit reports: general ledger, trial balance, journal report, intrastat report, check register.
> - Partner reports: partner ledger, aged receivable, aged payable.
> - Management: invoice analysis, unrealized gains/losses, depreciation schedule, disallowed expenses,
>   budget analysis, product margins, 1099 report.
> - Country specific reports based on your company's location and the fiscal localization packages
>   installed on your database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Statement Reports`: Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss, Cash Flow Statement, Tax Report, ES Sales List.
- :guilabel:`Audit Reports`: General Ledger, Trial Balance, Journal Report, Intrastat Report, Check Register.
- :guilabel:`Partner Reports`: Partner Ledger, Aged Receivable, Aged Payable.
- :guilabel:`Management`: Invoice Analysis, Unrealized Currency Gains/Losses, Depreciation Schedule, Disallowed Expenses, Budget Analysis, Product Margins, 1099 Report.
- **Country specific reports** based on your company's location and the fiscal localization packages
  installed on your database.
```

.. tip::
   Odoo's report engine allows you to customize your own report based on your own
   :doc:`formulas <../reporting/overview/customize>`.

Tax report
----------

Odoo computes all accounting transactions for the specific tax period and uses these totals to
calculate the tax obligation.

.. important::
  Once the tax report has been generated, Odoo does not allow to make journal entries involving VAT
  involving VAT in the closed period. If the period is locked, any correction to customer or vendor
  bills have to be recorded in the next period.

.. note::
   Depending on the country's localization, an .XML file can be generated to upload the tax report
   directly on the VAT platform of the legal administration.

Bank synchronization
====================

> Odoo bank synchronization system directly connects with your bank institution to automatically
> import all bank transactions into your database. This means a daily view about cashflow
> will be available without having to log into the online banking system or wait for paper bank
> statements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Odoo bank synchronization system connects with your bank institution to automatically
import your bank transactions into your database, offering an overview of your cash flow without logging into the online banking system or waiting for paper bank statements.
```

Author: I find the sentence suggested a bit too long for English sentences' structure. I still kept your suggestion but made it in 2 sentences.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Bank Synchronization <../bank/bank_synchronization>`

> Inventory Valuation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inventory valuation
```

> Easy retained earnings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retained earnings
```
I wouldn't use the word "easy" which is a bit too _marketingy_. You could just keep 'Retained earnings' to be consistent with other headings. Maybe "automatic", or "simplified" if you want to add an adjective? Not sure what's best here.

======================

> Retained earnings are the portion of income retained by your business. Odoo automatically calculates
> your current year earnings in real-time, so no year-end journal or rollover is required. The profit
> and loss balance is automatically reported to your balance sheet report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retained earnings are the portion of income retained by a business. Odoo calculates
current year earnings in real-time, so no year-end journal or rollover is required. The profit
and loss balance is automatically reported on the balance sheet report.
```
- "your"/"you" isn't necessary most of the time.
- Odoo calculates (automatically is implied here)
- Report on ≠ report to (i.e., your superior)

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Accounting Cheat Sheet <cheat_sheet>`

Fiduciaries
===========

The :guilabel:`Accounting Firms` mode can be activated by going to :menuselection:`Accounting -->
Configuration --> Settings --> Accounting Firms mode`. When enabled:

- The document's sequence becomes editable on all documents;
- A new field :guilabel:`Total (tax incl.)` appears in order to speed up and control the encoding by
  automating line creation with the right account and tax;

> - :guilabel:`Invoice Date` and :guilabel:`Bill Date` are automatically pre-filled when encoding a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Invoice Date` and :guilabel:`Bill Date` are pre-filled when encoding a
```
pre-filled implies its automatic

  transaction.

> - A :guilabel:`Quick encoding` option for Customer Invoices and Vendor bills.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A :guilabel:`Quick encoding` option is available for customer invoices and vendor bills.
```
- Added a verb to be consistent with the structure of the first bullet points.
- No capitals necessary.

Easy retained earnings
======================

> Retained earnings are the portion of income retained by your business. Odoo automatically calculates
> your current year earnings in real-time, so no year-end journal or rollover is required. This is
> calculated by automatically reporting the profit and loss balance to your balance sheet report.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Retained earnings are the portion of income retained by your business. Odoo automatically calculates
your current year earnings in real-time, so no year-end journal or rollover is required. The profit and loss balance is automatically reported to your balance sheet report.
```

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Accounting Cheat Sheet <cheat_sheet>`

Fiduciaries
===========

> The :guilabel:`Accounting Firms` mode can be activated from the Accounting Settings. When enabled:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Accounting Firms` mode can be activated by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings: Accounting Firms mode`. When enabled:
```

- The document's sequence becomes editable on all documents;
- A new field :guilabel:`Total (tax incl.)` appears in order to speed up and control the encoding by
   automating line creation with the right account and tax;

> - Default customer invoices and vendor bills dates are suggested.

Reviewer 2: I also see the Quick Encoding option that could be mentioned here.
